### Civilization Beginning

These aliens are truly unique. They can make metals now. They do it by throwing slimy, colored rocks into a very hot furnace. When the furnace cools down they find pebbles of metal melted together at the bottom. It's very impressive that they figured out that the colored slime was rust and indicative of deposits of metal.

It will be interesting to see what interests your aliens more about metals: The physical and chemical composition of them, or the mechanical and crafty things that could be made from them. If they end up anything like Goulpian aliens, they might eventually find interesting ways to introduce the metals with other materials to make ingestible compounds; to promote heart health or ego death or something. If they go the other way, then they may end up more like the Dregons or the Xa Kinaxen. If your aliens are Dregon-like then they'll make the metals into hammers, swords, and high performance exercise equipment. They'll tune their bodies to physical perfection and intuitively breed their species for the corresponding evolutionary traits. If your aliens are more Xa Kinaxe-like then they'll make the metals into mechanical trinkets, machinery, and automated computing devices. Eventually they'll be able to make equipment capable of approximating the ratio of a circle's radius to its circumference with arbitrary precision.

Either way, they'll be more on par with the aliens of the Federation of Socialist Planets, and they'll be closer to assimilation with the rest of the intergalactic aliens. How they do this can only be told by the inevitable unraveling of time, and, of course, your various instigations.
