### The New Aliens on the Block

These new aliens are quite boring to look at. They mostly play around with sticks and rocks all day. You've shown them hand tools now, so maybe things will change. They seem to have the capabilities of intelligent life: They've already created like words for trees and water and sex and the sun. They like breaking rocks apart, and they've found that if they break the right rocks apart and in just the right way that the broken up rocks can be sharp enough to cut things with.

It might be useful to intervene, to show them that they might be able to use the like circumstantially sharpened rocks---what you refer to as _hand tools_---to their benefit. They might be able to use the rocks to cut down vegetation, to clear areas that are not otherwise walkable; or they could use the sharp rocks (umm _hand tools_) as tools to hunt down animals, to give them the ability to gather protein from the surrounding wildlife, to augment their diet and let them live off the land more efficiently; or they could be shown that the sharpened rocks might facilitate the harvesting of things like tree branches, materials that could be put together to create shelter and help settle the land.

<hr>

The usefulness of these new aliens in the eyes of the Contraxis Space Exploration corporation lies in their ability to innovate technologically. Xa Kinaxen aliens, for example, have proven themselves to be adept with computational technologies. Their prestige among Federation types follows from their ability to utilize more than just the typical electronic manipulations of materials to create computer hardware. They've incorporated the spooky actions of atomic and subatomic materials to achieve faster computation speeds from unliving material than any other alien.

Goulpian aliens, though in general less renown than Xa Kinaxen aliens among Federation types, owe their prestige to endeavors in chemistry. Though on occasion remarked for their psychedelic <sup>mis</sup>adventures, Goulpian aliens know better than any other what the most effective techniques might be for the synthesis of any compound. Certain Goulpian aliens like Marix Courvie have had their names put in practically every primary education curriculum of every planet of the Federation of Socialist Planets, and certain other Goulpian aliens like Ximophi Learvie fail to be obscured by what are---essentially---the indoctrination systems of the galaxies.

There are similar stories for Dregon aliens, who are known for innovations in musculature advancement; Suun Strounda aliens, known for their mastery of abstract reasoning and mathematics; and Traxene aliens who've founded techniques for enhancing neurological capabilities. Meanwhile---in showing the new aliens of your assignment the potential usefulness of circumstantially sharpened rocks---your aliens have taken to debarking trees and using the long strands of the stuff to make string. They have taken to twisting together pieces of string long enough to wear around their yet unclothed bodies. Though they're obviously more culturally advanced than they were before, it is yet to be determined if they'll find any sort of like economic benefit from the innovation.

At least these new aliens are not quite as boring to look at. 
