### Civilization Beginning

These aliens are truly unique. They can make metals now. They do it by throwing slimy, colored rocks into a very hot furnace. When the furnace cools down they find pebbles of metal melted together at the bottom. It's very impressive that they figured out that the colored slime was rust and indicative of deposits of metal.

Only truly clever creatures find their place among the aliens of the Federation of Socialist Planets.

It will be interesting to see what about metals your aliens will take interest in more: The physical and chemical composition of them, or the mechanical and crafty things that can be made from them.

If they end up anything like Goulpian aliens---who are interested in chemistry---they might find ways to mix the metals with other materials to make ingestible compounds. They'll like find that their ingestible compounds will promote heart health and they'll live longer, or they'll like discover all kinds of ways to cause ego death and learn to understand themselves better.

If they go the other way---the way of mechanics and crafts and construction---then they may end up more like the Dregons or the Xa Kinaxen. If your aliens are Dregon-like then they'll make the metals into hammers, swords, and high performance exercise equipment; they'll tune their bodies to physical perfection and intuitively breed their species for the corresponding evolutionary traits over next few hundred millenia. If your aliens are more Xa Kinaxe-like then they'll make the metals into mechanical trinkets, machinery, and automated computing devices. Eventually---as Xa Kinaxen-like aliens---they'll be able to make equipment capable of approximating the ratio of a circle's radius to its circumference with arbitrary precision or some such nonsense.

Either way, they'll be more like on par with the aliens of the Federation of Socialist Planets, meaning they'll be at least more "useful" to the Federation. The Federation will see them as more economically viable in the highly competitive intergalactic resource trade, and so your aliens will be that much closer to assimilation with the rest of the intergalactic aliens. How they do this can only be told by the inevitable unraveling of time, and, of course, your various instigations.

<hr>

An interesting note to touch on, at this point: The reason for why the Federation chose to call itself Socialist. You might be playing a word association game in your mind, bringing up the word _lazy_ in response to seeing the word _socialist_.

It's okay. I get it.

The Federation of Socialist Planets is rather lazy, actually. Practically no Federation alien has good work ethic, because no Federation alien has innate drive to compete in the complex economies of intergalactic space. If some alien were to compete more than the average alien, then it would be for no good personal reason under socialism. Any surplus value generated by the working alien would be stripped from the alien's hands by the governing Federation forces, so the alien is incentivized to work as little as possible.

A tragedy.

The Federation of Socialist Planets gets by as a socialist state by exporting its market drivers. The Federation provides socialist welfare to real pie in the sky endeavors such as space exploration---endeavors which are fruitless and profitless for any shareholding aliens---endeavors which end up finding new species of aliens to bring into Federation society. These new aliens often come from worlds filled with battles against existential nihilism. These aliens can't cope with the insignificance of life as they know it on their small, lonely planet, and breed such opinions as ambition, luxury, and greed in response.

In isolation, the aliens come up with crazy, innovative ideas that eventually become market drivers. The most usual story begins with some question like _Who is God_ and ends with some statement like _We can make God from money_. Incidentally, Xa Kinaxen aliens fit this archetype.

Xa Kinaxen aliens started as a species of temple building aliens making towers tall enough to _reach into the heavens_. They believed that from such a vantage point they could see Who must be up there making all the reasons for being. At the point they ended their galactic isolationism, they were building skyscraping computation machines designed to find the most _strategic_ way to consolidate everyone's money into as few hands as possible. They believed they that with such coalescence of monetary power that they could create someone capable of shaping life as they knew it on their small, lonely planet.

Before anything got too crazy, the Federation found the planet of the Xa Kinaxen aliens, Xa. Incidentally the space exploration corporation who made the discovery would eventually---through a series of tedious mergers and acquisitions, as well as one planetary strip mining company's last ditch corporate effort to become economically viable after depleting its planet's resources---become the Contraxis Space Exploration corporation.
